### The Play Store apps data has enormous potential to drive app-making businesses to success. Actionable insights can be drawn for developers to work on and capture the Android market. Explore and analyze the data to discover key factors responsible for app engagement and success.
---
<B> The Play Store is like a market place for Android apps. The apps comes in different sizes, free or paid type, category, version, etc. The reviews, installs features in the play store attributes the app and help the users in selecting the app of their choice. In this EDA project, I was provided with two datasets Play Store Data and User Reviews. 
>#### My study lead to following inferences for you 🤠! </B>

As the first step, I performed data wrangling over the raw data. Further, I analyzed the given datasets over certain features. I explored six main features in the dataset Rating, User Reviews, App Size, Min Android version, Category and App Type to discover their role in app engagement and success. This was the objective of present study.
* In Rating feature based analysis, I plotted Rating Distribution and found that most apps are rated good. Next, I focused on the relation between Rating and Sentiment Score also the relation between Rating and Number of Installs. Based on this, I concluded that both Sentiment Score and Number of Installs increase with increase in Rating. By comparing top 5 rated apps against top 5 rated apps with 10million+ installs, I was able to conclude that Rating is the supporting feature.
* In User Reviews based analysis, I found that most users review the app based on their experience. Although, there was no clear correlation between Sentiment Subjectivity and Sentiment Polarity, it was clear that users’ sentiments are strongly positive.
* In App size feature based analysis, plotting App Size distribution helped me conclude that most apps have size below 20mb. But using avg. installs and avg. reviews, the clear conclusion can be drawn as bulky apps attracts more users.
* Performing Minimum Android Version feature based analysis, I can make the conclusion that it is in the best interest of app makers to extend the support of the app till Android version 4.0, to have maximum profitability. On establishing relation between Minimum Android Version and App Size, it was evident that App size increases as Minimum Android Version increases.
* In Category feature based analysis, I focused on App count, Installs, Reviews, Average App size, Sentiment and Sentiment Score. I observed that the Family category had the highest app count, the Game category had the highest total number of installs and total number of reviews, the Communication category had the highest average number of installs and the Social category had the highest average number of reviews. The Game category had average app size significantly higher than the average app size of other categories. The Health and Fitness category was the most positively sentimental category. Based on Average Sentiment Score, I estimated Health and Fitness, Dating, Food and Drink, Education and Travel and Local as Next 5 popular category.
* In Type feature based analysis, I found that only 8% of total apps were Paid type. Average number of Installs was lower for Paid type apps by a factor of 100 when compared to Free type apps. Family category had the highest paid app count also the highest total earning while Lifestyle category had the highest average earning from installs. Minecraft came out to be top app based on earnings from installs. App makers needs to be pretty confident with the app features, if they want to launch paid type app.

### Comment, if you liked the EDA work done here.
